docs/en/snapshot/check.md, before:

# Data Check

After data migration, you may want to compare the source and target data row by row and column by column. If the data volume is too large, you can perform a sampled check. Please ensure that the tables to be checked have primary keys/unique keys.

Supports comparison for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

Data check can be used with both snapshot and CDC tasks. For CDC tasks, keep `[checker]` enabled and set `extract_type=cdc`; the checker validates applied changes after they are written to the target.

## Example: MySQL -> MySQL

Refer to [task templates](../../templates/mysql_to_mysql.md) and [tutorial](../tutorial/mysql_to_mysql.md)

### Sampling Check

In the full check configuration, add `sample_interval` to the `[extractor]` section. For example, setting `sample_interval=3` checks every 3rd record.
```
[extractor]
sample_interval=3
```

## Limitations

- Data check is source-driven (validates Source ∈ Target) and cannot detect extra rows that exist only in the target. To catch such cases, consider setting up a [Reverse Check](#reverse-check) by swapping extractor and checker configurations.
- For MongoDB, `_id` must be a hashable type (for example ObjectId/String/Int32/Int64). Unsupported `_id` types will make the checker return an error.

## DELETE Event Check

In CDC + Check scenarios, the checker validates DELETE events: it queries the target by primary key, and if the row still exists in the target, it is reported as an inconsistency in `diff.log` (with empty `diff_col_values`). When `output_revise_sql=true`, a corresponding `DELETE` repair statement is automatically generated in `sql.log`.

# Check Results

The check results are written to the log in JSON format, including diff.log, miss.log, sql.log, and summary.log. The logs are stored in the `log/check` subdirectory.

## Difference Log (diff.log)

Difference logs include database (schema), table (tb), primary key/unique key (id_col_values), source and target values of difference columns (diff_col_values).

```json
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_multi_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"5"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":"5","dst":"5000"},"f_2":{"src":"ok","dst":"after manual update"}}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_no_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"4"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":"2","dst":"1"}}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_no_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"6"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":null,"dst":"1","src_type":"None","dst_type":"Short"}}}
```

When the source and target types are different (such as Int32 vs Int64, or None vs Short), `src_type`/`dst_type` will appear under the corresponding column, clearly marking the type inconsistency. MongoDB also applies this rule, and the difference log will output the BSON type name.

Only when the router renames the schema or table will the log include `target_schema`/`target_tb` to identify the real destination table. `schema` and `tb` still represent the source, facilitating troubleshooting.

## Missing Log (miss.log)

Missing logs include database (schema), table (tb), and primary/unique key (id_col_values). Since missing records do not have difference columns, `diff_col_values` will not be output.

```json
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"no_pk_one_uk","id_col_values":{"f_1":"8","f_2":"1"}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"no_pk_one_uk","id_col_values":{"f_1":null,"f_2":null}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_multi_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"7"}}
```

## Output Full Row

When you need full row content for troubleshooting, you can enable full row logging in `[checker]`:

```
[checker]
output_full_row=true
```

After enabling, all diff.log entries will append `src_row` and `dst_row`, and miss.log entries will append `src_row` (currently only supports MySQL/PG/Mongo; Redis is not supported yet). Example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "one_pk_multi_uk",
  "id_col_values": {
    "f_0": "5"
  },
  "diff_col_values": {
    "f_1": {
      "src": "5",
      "dst": "5000"
    },
    "f_2": {
      "src": "ok",
      "dst": "after manual update"
    }
  },
  "src_row": {
    "f_0": 5,
    "f_1": 5,
    "f_2": "ok"
  },
  "dst_row": {
    "f_0": 5,
    "f_1": 5000,
    "f_2": "after manual update"
  }
}
```

## Output Revise SQL

If you need to manually repair inconsistent data, you can enable SQL output in `[checker]`:

```
[checker]
output_revise_sql=true
# Optional: force WHERE clause to match the whole row
revise_match_full_row=true
```

After enabling, `INSERT` statements for missing records and `UPDATE` statements for differing records will be written to `sql.log`.

When `revise_match_full_row=true`, the entire row data is used to generate the WHERE condition even if the table has a primary key, so that the target row is located by matching all column values.

If the router does not rename the schema or table, `target_schema`/`target_tb` will not appear in the log. These two fields are only needed to determine the destination table when routing renames are configured.

The generated SQL uses the real destination schema/table and can be executed directly at the target. When routing renames are configured, refer to `target_schema`/`target_tb` to determine the final target object.

Example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "one_pk_no_uk",
  "target_schema": "target_db",
  "target_tb": "target_tb",
  "id_col_values": {"f_0": "4"},
  "diff_col_values": {"f_1": {"src": "2", "dst": "1"}}
}
```

`sql.log` example:

```sql
UPDATE `target_db`.`target_tb` SET `f_1`='2' WHERE `f_0` = 4;
```

Missing record log example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "test_table",
  "id_col_values": {"id": "3"}
}
```

`sql.log` example:

```sql
INSERT INTO `test_db_1`.`test_table`(`id`,`name`,`age`,`email`) VALUES(3,'Charlie',35,'charlie@example.com');
```

## Summary Log (summary.log)

The summary log contains the overall results of the check, such as start_time, end_time, is_consistent, and the number of miss, diff.

```json
{"start_time": "2023-09-01T12:00:00+08:00", "end_time": "2023-09-01T12:00:01+08:00", "is_consistent": false, "miss_count": 1, "diff_count": 2, "sql_count": 3}
```

# Reverse Check

Data check is source-driven and only verifies that source rows exist in the target. To detect extra rows in the target that do not exist in the source, set up a reverse check by swapping the `[extractor]` and `[checker]` target configurations:

```
# Original: source=A, target=B
# Reverse: source=B, target=A
[extractor]
url=<original checker url>

[checker]
url=<original extractor url>
```

# Configuration

See [config.md](../config.md) for the full `[checker]` configuration list and target selection rules.

## Retry Mechanism

When `max_retries > 0`, the checker automatically retries on inconsistency:
- No logs are written during retry attempts to reduce noise
- Detailed miss/diff logs are only written on the final check
- Useful when target data synchronization is not yet complete

## Router

Supports the `[router]` configuration section. Refer to [config details](../config.md) for details.

## Integration Test References

Refer to `task_config.ini` of each type of integration test:
- dt-tests/tests/mysql_to_mysql/check
- dt-tests/tests/pg_to_pg/check
- dt-tests/tests/mongo_to_mongo/check

Commit message:

disable retries during cdc+check

docs/en/snapshot/check.md, after:

# Data Check

After data migration, you may want to compare the source and target data row by row and column by column. If the data volume is too large, you can perform a sampled check. Please ensure that the tables to be checked have primary keys/unique keys.

Supports comparison for MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB.

Data check can be used with both snapshot and CDC tasks. For CDC tasks, keep `[checker]` enabled and set `extract_type=cdc`; the checker validates applied changes after they are written to the target.

## Example: MySQL -> MySQL

Refer to [task templates](../../templates/mysql_to_mysql.md) and [tutorial](../tutorial/mysql_to_mysql.md)

### Sampling Check

In the full check configuration, add `sample_interval` to the `[extractor]` section. For example, setting `sample_interval=3` checks every 3rd record.
```
[extractor]
sample_interval=3
```

## Limitations

- Data check is source-driven (validates Source ∈ Target) and cannot detect extra rows that exist only in the target. To catch such cases, consider setting up a [Reverse Check](#reverse-check) by swapping extractor and checker configurations.
- For MongoDB, `_id` must be a hashable type (for example ObjectId/String/Int32/Int64). Unsupported `_id` types will make the checker return an error.

## DELETE Event Check

In CDC + Check scenarios, the checker validates DELETE events: it queries the target by primary key, and if the row still exists in the target, it is reported as an inconsistency in `diff.log` (with empty `diff_col_values`). When `output_revise_sql=true`, a corresponding `DELETE` repair statement is automatically generated in `sql.log`.

# Check Results

The check results are written to the log in JSON format, including diff.log, miss.log, sql.log, and summary.log. The logs are stored in the `log/check` subdirectory.

## Difference Log (diff.log)

Difference logs include database (schema), table (tb), primary key/unique key (id_col_values), source and target values of difference columns (diff_col_values).

```json
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_multi_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"5"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":"5","dst":"5000"},"f_2":{"src":"ok","dst":"after manual update"}}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_no_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"4"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":"2","dst":"1"}}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_no_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"6"},"diff_col_values":{"f_1":{"src":null,"dst":"1","src_type":"None","dst_type":"Short"}}}
```

When the source and target types are different (such as Int32 vs Int64, or None vs Short), `src_type`/`dst_type` will appear under the corresponding column, clearly marking the type inconsistency. MongoDB also applies this rule, and the difference log will output the BSON type name.

Only when the router renames the schema or table will the log include `target_schema`/`target_tb` to identify the real destination table. `schema` and `tb` still represent the source, facilitating troubleshooting.

## Missing Log (miss.log)

Missing logs include database (schema), table (tb), and primary/unique key (id_col_values). Since missing records do not have difference columns, `diff_col_values` will not be output.

```json
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"no_pk_one_uk","id_col_values":{"f_1":"8","f_2":"1"}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"no_pk_one_uk","id_col_values":{"f_1":null,"f_2":null}}
{"schema":"test_db_1","tb":"one_pk_multi_uk","id_col_values":{"f_0":"7"}}
```

## Output Full Row

When you need full row content for troubleshooting, you can enable full row logging in `[checker]`:

```
[checker]
output_full_row=true
```

After enabling, all diff.log entries will append `src_row` and `dst_row`, and miss.log entries will append `src_row` (currently only supports MySQL/PG/Mongo; Redis is not supported yet). Example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "one_pk_multi_uk",
  "id_col_values": {
    "f_0": "5"
  },
  "diff_col_values": {
    "f_1": {
      "src": "5",
      "dst": "5000"
    },
    "f_2": {
      "src": "ok",
      "dst": "after manual update"
    }
  },
  "src_row": {
    "f_0": 5,
    "f_1": 5,
    "f_2": "ok"
  },
  "dst_row": {
    "f_0": 5,
    "f_1": 5000,
    "f_2": "after manual update"
  }
}
```

## Output Revise SQL

If you need to manually repair inconsistent data, you can enable SQL output in `[checker]`:

```
[checker]
output_revise_sql=true
# Optional: force WHERE clause to match the whole row
revise_match_full_row=true
```

After enabling, `INSERT` statements for missing records and `UPDATE` statements for differing records will be written to `sql.log`.

When `revise_match_full_row=true`, the entire row data is used to generate the WHERE condition even if the table has a primary key, so that the target row is located by matching all column values.

If the router does not rename the schema or table, `target_schema`/`target_tb` will not appear in the log. These two fields are only needed to determine the destination table when routing renames are configured.

The generated SQL uses the real destination schema/table and can be executed directly at the target. When routing renames are configured, refer to `target_schema`/`target_tb` to determine the final target object.

Example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "one_pk_no_uk",
  "target_schema": "target_db",
  "target_tb": "target_tb",
  "id_col_values": {"f_0": "4"},
  "diff_col_values": {"f_1": {"src": "2", "dst": "1"}}
}
```

`sql.log` example:

```sql
UPDATE `target_db`.`target_tb` SET `f_1`='2' WHERE `f_0` = 4;
```

Missing record log example:

```json
{
  "schema": "test_db_1",
  "tb": "test_table",
  "id_col_values": {"id": "3"}
}
```

`sql.log` example:

```sql
INSERT INTO `test_db_1`.`test_table`(`id`,`name`,`age`,`email`) VALUES(3,'Charlie',35,'charlie@example.com');
```

## Summary Log (summary.log)

The summary log contains the overall results of the check, such as start_time, end_time, is_consistent, and the number of miss, diff.

```json
{"start_time": "2023-09-01T12:00:00+08:00", "end_time": "2023-09-01T12:00:01+08:00", "is_consistent": false, "miss_count": 1, "diff_count": 2, "sql_count": 3}
```

# Reverse Check

Data check is source-driven and only verifies that source rows exist in the target. To detect extra rows in the target that do not exist in the source, set up a reverse check by swapping the `[extractor]` and `[checker]` target configurations:

```
# Original: source=A, target=B
# Reverse: source=B, target=A
[extractor]
url=<original checker url>

[checker]
url=<original extractor url>
```

# Configuration

See [config.md](../config.md) for the full `[checker]` configuration list and target selection rules.

## Retry Mechanism

When `max_retries > 0`, the checker automatically retries on inconsistency:
- No logs are written during retry attempts to reduce noise
- Detailed miss/diff logs are only written on the final check
- Useful when target data synchronization is not yet complete

> **Note:** Retries are not supported in CDC+check mode. CDC events arrive as a stream, and subsequent DELETE events may remove data that was correctly written, causing false misses in the retry queue. Even if `max_retries` and `retry_interval_secs` are configured, they are forcibly ignored (set to 0) in CDC mode, and a warning is logged.

## Router

Supports the `[router]` configuration section. Refer to [config details](../config.md) for details.

## Integration Test References

Refer to `task_config.ini` of each type of integration test:
- dt-tests/tests/mysql_to_mysql/check
- dt-tests/tests/pg_to_pg/check
- dt-tests/tests/mongo_to_mongo/check
